Editorial review: scroll-state scrolled descriptor (#43026)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/guides/conditional_rules/container_scroll-state_queries/index.md

      tempor bibendum. <a href="#">Integer id mauris ut ex mattis finibus.</a>
    </p>

    <p>
      Curabitur dui felis, elementum et tellus id, blandit facilisis lorem.
      Aliquam sed posuere ligula, at auctor ipsum. Morbi dignissim accumsan
      tellus pretium iaculis.
    </p>
  </section>
</article>
```

### CSS

The "bars" are given some rudimentary styling. Most significantly, they are given a {{cssxref("position")}} value of `fixed`, and given a little bit of spacing on either side using {{cssxref("left")}} and {{cssxref("right")}} values.

```css hidden live-sample___scrolled
/* General styling */

* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

html {
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  height: 100%;
}

body {
  height: inherit;
  width: 90%;
  margin: 0 auto;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

img {
  display: block;
  width: 90%;
  margin: 30px auto;
  padding: 20px;
  border: 2px solid gray;
  aspect-ratio: 3/2;
}
```

```css live-sample___scrolled
.bar {
  border-radius: 10px;
  border: 1px solid #000;
  background: #0009;
  padding: 10px;
  color: white;
  text-shadow: 1px 1px 1px black;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;

>   align-items: center;

Author: done

  position: fixed;
  left: 5px;
  right: 5px;
}
```

> Next, we give the top "bar" a {{cssxref("top")}} value of `-50px`, and the bottom "bar" a {{cssxref("bottom")}} value of `-50px` to hide them off the top and bottom of the screen by default. We also give them both a {{cssxref("transition")}} so that they smoothly animate when their `top`/`bottom` values are changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we set negative {{cssxref("top")}} and {{cssxref("bottom")}} length values on the top and bottom bars so they are hidden above and below the viewport by default. We add a {{cssxref("transition")}} to smoothly animate them into view when their `top` or `bottom` value changes.
```

```css live-sample___scrolled
html {
  container-type: scroll-state;
  container-name: scroller;
}
```

Next, we define two {{cssxref("@container")}} blocks that set the container name targeted by these queries, and queries of `scrolled: block-end` and `scrolled: block-start`. Respectively, these queries apply the rules contained within the block only if the `<html>` element was most recently scrolled toward its block-end edge or block-start edge — in other words, when the container is scrolled downwards or upwards. When those conditions become true, the bar referenced inside the block has a new `bottom`/`top` value set to cause it to transition on-screen.

```css live-sample___scrolled
@container scroller scroll-state(scrolled: block-end) {
  #bottom-bar {
    bottom: 5px;
  }
}

@container scroller scroll-state(scrolled: block-start) {
  #top-bar {
    top: 5px;
  }
}
```

We've hidden the rest of the example CSS for brevity.

### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("scrolled", "100%", "400px")}}

Try scrolling the document up and down, and note how the different bars appear as a result, animating smoothly on- and off-screen.

## Using `snapped` queries

> Relevant only when [scroll snapping](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll_snap) is implemented, scroll-state [`snapped`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@container#snapped) queries (written as `scroll-state(snapped: value)`) test whether a container is going to be snapped to a [scroll snap container](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_snap#scroll_snap_container) ancestor along the given axis. If not, the query returns false.

Author: Updated in my next commit. I kept this as a reminder in case there were other instances to fix.
